just watch this care raiding a wheelie
bin it's using its brain as a chess
player dance to work out a sequence of
moves which logs need to be shifted in
what order to allow it to open the bin
and it isn't just clever
it has brawn as well as brains this
isn't a trick
the bird was taught this keyer is a wild
creature it figured out the problem
without any human prompting a perfect
opening gambit observations of
intelligent behavior like this have
brought scientists from across the world
to test the kiyose abilities in its
natural habitat in Mount Cook National
Park in this test the wild Kea is
offered some butter a favorite kheer
treat sandwiched between two plastic
cylinders it can only get a reward by
dismantling the apparatus in exactly the
reverse order in which it was assembled
this would tax the ingenuity of a monkey
or even a young child
after a bit of trial Mara the Kia has
solved the puzzle meanwhile another bird
is watching and learning and the first
gears moves when it comes to the unlock
astern it emulates the first birds
actions solving the problem to claim its
own reward